# tangent-dynamics-analysis
In this repository, I share my first PhD paper, a piece of MATLAB code that re-generates one of my most significant PhD results (corresponding to Fig. 4b in the paper) and a movie from experiments that our colleagues conducted to validate this result.

In my Phd, I studied short chains of paramagnetic particles submerged in a fluid and subjected to an external rotating magnetic field. These particle systems have many proven and potential applications in microfluidics and bio industry. The uploaded paper is my first PhD paper that discusses one of my most significant PhD results: above a critical rotational frequency of the field, the chain of the particles breaks up and particles undergo an episode of chaotic motion which is temporary. The long term response of the particles is forming ordered, rotating and stable structures. The MATLAB code re-generates Fig. 4b in the paper. Fig. 4b plots log(epsilon) vs. time where epsilon is the separation between two initially neighboring trajectories. If the motion is chaotic, epsilon experiences an exponential growth, otherwise it remains fixed. Therefore, a positive slope of log(epsilon) vs. time means chaos and a zero slope means order. Fig 4b shows a sharp transition from chaos to order.  

Note: The code generates the log(epsilon) vs. time curve for a trajectory with a different initial condition to that in the paper. The goal is to show that although varying the initial condition changes the chaotic route and the transition time, the sharp transition from chaos to order is a general trend. 
